_source/_use_cases/isv/includes/related.md, before:


+ [Security Analytics]
+ [Security Enforcement]
+ [ISV Syslog References]
+ [Embedded OCC]

[Security Enforcement]: ./security-enforcement.html "Security Enforcement"
[Security Analytics]: ./security-analytics.html "Security Analytics"
[Embedded OCC]: ./embedded-occ.html "Embedded OCC"
[ISV Syslog References]: ./isv-syslog-references.html "ISV Syslog References"
[Common Guidance]: #common-guidance-and-requirements "Common Guidance"
[API Test Client]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/api_test_client.html "test client"
[Auth Principals]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#authentication "Authentication"
[User Agent]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#user-agent "User-Agent"
[Pagination]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#pagination "Pagination"
[Rate Limiting]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#rate-limiting "Rate Limiting"
[System Log API]: ../../docs/api/resources/system_log.html "System Log API"
[Users API]: ../../docs/api/resources/users.html "Users API"
[Groups API]: ../../docs/api/resources/groups.html "Groups API"
[Apps API]: ../../docs/api/resources/apps.html "Apps API"
[appUser Object]: ../../docs/api/resources/apps.html#application-user-model "App User Object"
[appGroup Object]: ../../docs/api/resources/apps.html#application-group-model "App Group Object"
[API endpoints]: ../../documentation/index.html "API Endpoints"
[SCIM Standards]: ../../standards/SCIM/index.html "SCIM Standards"
[Okta Cloud Connect]: https://www.okta.com/partners/okta-cloud-connect "Okta Cloud Connect"
[Getting a token]: https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/getting_started/getting_a_token.html "Getting a token"

Commit message:

Release 2017.50 (#1557)
* web-i-fication of existing content being distrubited via PDF (#1440)

* web-i-fication of existing content being distrubited via PDF

* fixes error from missing img for pull request 1440

* fixed some links that travis didn't like for #1440

* more link fixes because travis is good #1440

* missed a few more bad links

* Address concerns from review and port Embedded OCC Guide

* typo and removed percentages from common events table

* remove static oktapreview references

* update bad link

* duplicate #1509 so i can pass travis ci

* Update User API documentation to include discussion of importing hashed passwords (#1525)

Resolves: OKTA-149144

* RN 2017-49 first draft (#1527)

tweaks

more tweaks

more tweaks

improve description request jwt param

missed a word

improve request jwt param blurb

* add request param for jwt (#1532)

* add request param for jwt

* revisions

* improve request param example

* make request jwt param even better

* remove extra jwt from 3rd example--paste error

* clarify intro to third auth request example

* Add docs for strict param on admin change password endpoints. (#1548)

Resolves: OKTA-151502

* OKTA-149608: Fully documents Logs API query parameters. (#1539)

- Changes Log to LogEvent
- Adds more linking to sections
- Fixes invalid field name references
- Adds missing punctuation
- Standardizes on "attributes" over "fields"
- Adds warning about incomplete event types

* Release notes for 2017.50 (#1554)

_source/_use_cases/isv/includes/related.md, after:


Related articles
: These are all items that are similar in nature

+ [Security Analytics]
+ [Security Enforcement]
+ [ISV Syslog References]
+ [Embedded OCC]

[Security Enforcement]: ./security-enforcement.html "Security Enforcement"
[Security Analytics]: ./security-analytics.html "Security Analytics"
[Embedded OCC]: ./embedded-occ.html "Embedded OCC"
[ISV Syslog References]: ./isv-syslog-references.html "ISV Syslog References"
[Common Guidance]: #common-guidance-and-requirements "Common Guidance"
[API Test Client]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/api_test_client.html "test client"
[Auth Principals]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#authentication "Authentication"
[User Agent]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#user-agent "User-Agent"
[Pagination]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#pagination "Pagination"
[Rate Limiting]: ../../docs/api/getting_started/design_principles.html#rate-limiting "Rate Limiting"
[System Log API]: ../../docs/api/resources/system_log.html "System Log API"
[Users API]: ../../docs/api/resources/users.html "Users API"
[Groups API]: ../../docs/api/resources/groups.html "Groups API"
[Apps API]: ../../docs/api/resources/apps.html "Apps API"
[appUser Object]: ../../docs/api/resources/apps.html#application-user-model "App User Object"
[appGroup Object]: ../../docs/api/resources/apps.html#application-group-model "App Group Object"
[API endpoints]: ../../documentation/index.html "API Endpoints"
[SCIM Standards]: ../../standards/SCIM/index.html "SCIM Standards"
[Okta Cloud Connect]: https://www.okta.com/partners/okta-cloud-connect "Okta Cloud Connect"
[Getting a token]: https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/getting_started/getting_a_token.html "Getting a token"
