_source/_docs/api/resources/linked-objects.md, before:

---
layout: docs_page
title: Linked Objects
excerpt: The Linked Objects API helps you create relationships between pairs of users, such as Manager and Subordinate.
---

# Linked Objects API

{% api_lifecycle ea %}

Users have relationships to each other, like manager and subordinate or customer and sales representative. You can create users with relationships by using the Linked Objects API to represent the relationship:

1. Create a linked object definition such as Manager:Subordinate or Case Worker:Client. These pairs are represented by a `primary` attribute and an `associated` attribute.
2. Link users together to create the relationship between the two. You'll create a linked object value with a single request that links one `primary` and one `associated` user.

For each relationship:

* A user has at most one `primary` link (a user has a single manager) but can have many `associated` links (a user can have many subordinates).
* A user can be the `primary` in one relationship and the `associated` in another.
* A user can be both the `primary` and `associated` in the same relationship.

For details, see the [Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model).

The Expression Language function for [linked objects](/reference/okta_expression_language/#linked-object-function) provides access to the details about a linked user.
<!-- Hiding this until the collection is ready, hopefully GA  ## Getting Started Explore the Linked Objects API: [![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/create-collection-from-jira) (link doesn't work yet) -->

## Link Definition Operations

Link definition operations allow you to manage the creation and removal of the link definitions. If you remove a link definition, links based on that definition are unavailable.

> Currently, links reappear if you recreate the definition. However, Okta is likely to change this behavior so that links don't reappear. Don't rely on this behavior in production environments.

Each org can create up to 200 definitions, and assign them to an unlimited number of users.

### Add Linked Object Definition to User Profile Schema
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation post /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects %}

Adds a linked object definition to the user profile schema

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter | Description | Param Type | DataType  | Required |
| :------------- | :-------------- | :---------------- | :----------- | :------------ |
| linkedObject | The linked object definition being created | Body | [Linked Object](#linked-object-model)  | TRUE   |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

[Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model)

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -X POST \
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    }
}' "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
        }
    }
}
~~~

### Get a Linked Object Definition by Name
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation GET /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/${name} %}

Gets a single linked object definition

You can specify either the `primary` name or the `associated` name.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :------------- | :---------------- | :---------------- |:------------- |
| name | Case-sensitive API name of the definition you want returned | String | TRUE     |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

[Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model)

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -X POST \
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~json
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
        }
    }
}
~~~
> Note: Regardless of whether you specify the `primary` or `associated` name in the request, the resulting link contains the `primary`.

### Get All Linked Object Definitions
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation get /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects %}

Gets all the linked object definitions for an org

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

None

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

Array of [Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model)

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~json
[
    {
        "primary": {
            "name": "manager",
            "title": "Manager",
            "description": "Manager link property",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "associated": {
            "name": "subordinate",
            "title": "Subordinate",
            "description": "Subordinate link property",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "primary": {
            "name": "mother",
            "title": "Mother",
            "description": "Mother",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "associated": {
            "name": "child",
            "title": "Child",
            "description": "Child",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/mother"
            }
        }
    }
]
~~~

### Remove Linked Object Definition
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation delete /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/${name} %}

Removes the linked object definition specified by either `primary` or `associated` name. The entire definition is removed, regardless of which name you specify

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType   | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |:------------ |
| name | Primary or associated name | String | TRUE  |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

None

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/mother"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
~~~

## Link Value Operations

Use link value operations to assign users to a relationship (pair of `primary` and `associated` links).

For the following operations, the examples use consistent IDs so you can follow the operations more easily:

* `manager` is the `primary` relationship, and is assigned to `00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7`
* `subordinate` is the `associated` relationship, and is assigned to `00u5zex6ztMbOZhF50h7`

### Set Linked Object Value for Primary
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation put /api/v1/users/${associated.userId}/linkedObjects/${primary.name}/${primary.userId} %}

Sets the first user as the `associated` and the second user as the `primary` for the specified relationship. If the first user is already associated with a different `primary` for this relationship, the previous link is removed. A linked object relationship can specify only one primary user for an associated user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| associated.userId | User ID or `login` value of user to be assigned the `associated` relationship | String | TRUE     |
| primary.name | Name of the `primary` relationship being assigned | String | TRUE  |
| primary.userId | User ID to be assigned to `primary` for the `associated` user in the specified relationship. | String | TRUE   |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

None

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X PUT \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/${associated.userId}/linkedObjects/${primary.name}/${primary.userId}"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
~~~

### Get Primary Linked Object Value
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation get /api/v1/users/${id}/linkedObjects/${primary.name} %}

For the user specified by ID, returns the `self` link for the `primary` user in the relationship specified by the primary.name. If the user specified is not the `associated` user in any relationship, an empty array is returned.

Use `me` instead of `id` to specify the current session user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| id | ID of the user for whom you want to get the `primary` user ID. Can be `me` to represent the current session user. | String | TRUE     |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

Array containing a link to the `primary` user, or an empty array if the specified user is not yet associated with a `primary` user.

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5zex6ztMbOZhF50h7/linkedObjects/manager"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
[
    {
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7"
            }
        }
    }
]
~~~

### Get Associated Linked Object Values
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation get /api/v1/users/${id}/linkedObjects/${associated.name} %}

For the specified user, gets an array of users who are `associated` for the specified relationship. If the specified user isn't assigned a `primary` relationship, an empty array is returned.

Use `me` instead of `id` to specify the current session user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| id | ID of the user for whom you want to get the `associated` user IDs. Can be `me` to represent the current session user. | String | TRUE     |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

Links to all users associated to the specified `primary` user for the specified `associated` relationship.

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7/linkedObjects/subordinate"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
[
    {
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5zex6ztMbOZhF50h7"
            }
        }
    }
]
~~~

### Delete Linked Object Value
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation delete  /api/v1/users/${id}/linkedObjects/${primary.name}
 %}

For the `associated` user specified by ID and the relationship specified by `primary` name, deletes any existing relationship between the `associated` and `primary` user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| id | ID of the user in the `associated` relationship for the specified primary name. Can be `me` to represent the current session user. | String | TRUE   |
| primary.name | The name of the `primary` relationship associated with the specified `associated` user. The relationship between these two users is the linked object value being deleted. | String | TRUE |

An HTTP 204 message is returned:

* If the relationship is deleted.
* If the specified user isn't in the `associated` relationship for any instance of the specified `primary` and thus no relationship is found.

An HTTP 404 is returned if no linked object definition exists with the specified `primary.name`.

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

None

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com//api/v1/users/00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7/linkedObjects/manager"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
~~~

## Linked Object Model

The following model contains example values for each attribute. 

~~~sh
{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "_links": {
          "self": {
               "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
          }
    }
}
~~~
### Linked Object Properties

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType          | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |:------------ |
| primary.name | API name of the `primary` link | String  | TRUE   |
| primary.title    | Display name of the `primary` link | String | TRUE |
| primary.description | Description of the `primary` relationship | String | FALSE |
| primary.type | The object type for this `primary` link. Valid value: `USER` | Enum | TRUE |
| associated.name | API name of the `associated` link | String  | TRUE   |
| associated.title    | Display name of the `associated` link | String | TRUE |
| associated.description | Description of the `associated` relationship | String | FALSE |
| associated.type | The object type for this `associated` relationship. Valid value: `USER` | Enum | TRUE |

> The primary.type and associated.type are created as Enums to allow Okta to add more object types in the future. This is not a guarantee that Okta will do so.

Commit message:

add linked objects postman collection to docs (#2033)
* add linked objects postman collection to docs

* fix missing vertical space

_source/_docs/api/resources/linked-objects.md, after:

---
layout: docs_page
title: Linked Objects
excerpt: The Linked Objects API helps you create relationships between pairs of users, such as Manager and Subordinate.
---

# Linked Objects API

{% api_lifecycle ea %}

Users have relationships to each other, like manager and subordinate or customer and sales representative. You can create users with relationships by using the Linked Objects API to represent the relationship:

1. Create a linked object definition such as Manager:Subordinate or Case Worker:Client. These pairs are represented by a `primary` attribute and an `associated` attribute.
2. Link users together to create the relationship between the two. You'll create a linked object value with a single request that links one `primary` and one `associated` user.

For each relationship:

* A user has at most one `primary` link (a user has a single manager) but can have many `associated` links (a user can have many subordinates).
* A user can be the `primary` in one relationship and the `associated` in another.
* A user can be both the `primary` and `associated` in the same relationship.

For details, see the [Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model).

The Expression Language function for [linked objects](/reference/okta_expression_language/#linked-object-function) provides access to the details about a linked user.

## Getting Started 

Explore the Linked Objects API:

[![Run in Postman](https://run.pstmn.io/button.svg)](https://app.getpostman.com/run-collection/ed4c5606d25d1014b7ea){:target="_blank"}

## Link Definition Operations

Link definition operations allow you to manage the creation and removal of the link definitions. If you remove a link definition, links based on that definition are unavailable.

> Currently, links reappear if you recreate the definition. However, Okta is likely to change this behavior so that links don't reappear. Don't rely on this behavior in production environments.

Each org can create up to 200 definitions, and assign them to an unlimited number of users.

### Add Linked Object Definition to User Profile Schema
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation post /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects %}

Adds a linked object definition to the user profile schema

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter | Description | Param Type | DataType  | Required |
| :------------- | :-------------- | :---------------- | :----------- | :------------ |
| linkedObject | The linked object definition being created | Body | [Linked Object](#linked-object-model)  | TRUE   |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

[Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model)

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -X POST \
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    }
}' "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
        }
    }
}
~~~

### Get a Linked Object Definition by Name
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation GET /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/${name} %}

Gets a single linked object definition

You can specify either the `primary` name or the `associated` name.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :------------- | :---------------- | :---------------- |:------------- |
| name | Case-sensitive API name of the definition you want returned | String | TRUE     |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

[Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model)

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -X POST \
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~json
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
        }
    }
}
~~~
> Note: Regardless of whether you specify the `primary` or `associated` name in the request, the resulting link contains the `primary`.

### Get All Linked Object Definitions
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation get /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects %}

Gets all the linked object definitions for an org

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

None

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

Array of [Linked Object Model](#linked-object-model)

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~json
[
    {
        "primary": {
            "name": "manager",
            "title": "Manager",
            "description": "Manager link property",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "associated": {
            "name": "subordinate",
            "title": "Subordinate",
            "description": "Subordinate link property",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "primary": {
            "name": "mother",
            "title": "Mother",
            "description": "Mother",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "associated": {
            "name": "child",
            "title": "Child",
            "description": "Child",
            "type": "USER"
        },
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/mother"
            }
        }
    }
]
~~~

### Remove Linked Object Definition
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation delete /api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/${name} %}

Removes the linked object definition specified by either `primary` or `associated` name. The entire definition is removed, regardless of which name you specify

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType   | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |:------------ |
| name | Primary or associated name | String | TRUE  |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

None

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/mother"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
~~~

## Link Value Operations

Use link value operations to assign users to a relationship (pair of `primary` and `associated` links).

For the following operations, the examples use consistent IDs so you can follow the operations more easily:

* `manager` is the `primary` relationship, and is assigned to `00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7`
* `subordinate` is the `associated` relationship, and is assigned to `00u5zex6ztMbOZhF50h7`

### Set Linked Object Value for Primary
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation put /api/v1/users/${associated.userId}/linkedObjects/${primary.name}/${primary.userId} %}

Sets the first user as the `associated` and the second user as the `primary` for the specified relationship. If the first user is already associated with a different `primary` for this relationship, the previous link is removed. A linked object relationship can specify only one primary user for an associated user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| associated.userId | User ID or `login` value of user to be assigned the `associated` relationship | String | TRUE     |
| primary.name | Name of the `primary` relationship being assigned | String | TRUE  |
| primary.userId | User ID to be assigned to `primary` for the `associated` user in the specified relationship. | String | TRUE   |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

None

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X PUT \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/${associated.userId}/linkedObjects/${primary.name}/${primary.userId}"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
~~~

### Get Primary Linked Object Value
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation get /api/v1/users/${id}/linkedObjects/${primary.name} %}

For the user specified by ID, returns the `self` link for the `primary` user in the relationship specified by the primary.name. If the user specified is not the `associated` user in any relationship, an empty array is returned.

Use `me` instead of `id` to specify the current session user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| id | ID of the user for whom you want to get the `primary` user ID. Can be `me` to represent the current session user. | String | TRUE     |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

Array containing a link to the `primary` user, or an empty array if the specified user is not yet associated with a `primary` user.

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5zex6ztMbOZhF50h7/linkedObjects/manager"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
[
    {
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7"
            }
        }
    }
]
~~~

### Get Associated Linked Object Values
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation get /api/v1/users/${id}/linkedObjects/${associated.name} %}

For the specified user, gets an array of users who are `associated` for the specified relationship. If the specified user isn't assigned a `primary` relationship, an empty array is returned.

Use `me` instead of `id` to specify the current session user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| id | ID of the user for whom you want to get the `associated` user IDs. Can be `me` to represent the current session user. | String | TRUE     |

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

Links to all users associated to the specified `primary` user for the specified `associated` relationship.

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7/linkedObjects/subordinate"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
[
    {
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/users/00u5zex6ztMbOZhF50h7"
            }
        }
    }
]
~~~

### Delete Linked Object Value
{:.api .api-operation}

{% api_operation delete  /api/v1/users/${id}/linkedObjects/${primary.name}
 %}

For the `associated` user specified by ID and the relationship specified by `primary` name, deletes any existing relationship between the `associated` and `primary` user.

##### Request Parameters
{:.api .api-request .api-request-params}

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType     | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- |:---------------- |:------------ |
| id | ID of the user in the `associated` relationship for the specified primary name. Can be `me` to represent the current session user. | String | TRUE   |
| primary.name | The name of the `primary` relationship associated with the specified `associated` user. The relationship between these two users is the linked object value being deleted. | String | TRUE |

An HTTP 204 message is returned:

* If the relationship is deleted.
* If the specified user isn't in the `associated` relationship for any instance of the specified `primary` and thus no relationship is found.

An HTTP 404 is returned if no linked object definition exists with the specified `primary.name`.

##### Response Parameters
{:.api .api-response .api-response-params}

None

##### Request Example
{:.api .api-request .api-request-example}

~~~sh
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://{yourOktaDomain}.com//api/v1/users/00u5t60iloOHN9pBi0h7/linkedObjects/manager"
~~~

##### Response Example
{:.api .api-response .api-response-example}

~~~sh
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
~~~

## Linked Object Model

The following model contains example values for each attribute. 

~~~sh
{
    "primary": {
        "name": "manager",
        "title": "Manager",
        "description": "Manager link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "associated": {
        "name": "subordinate",
        "title": "Subordinate",
        "description": "Subordinate link property",
        "type": "USER"
    },
    "_links": {
          "self": {
               "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}.com/api/v1/meta/schemas/user/default/linkedObjects/manager"
          }
    }
}
~~~
### Linked Object Properties

| Parameter   | Description    | DataType          | Required |
| :--------------- | :----------------- | :-------------------- |:------------ |
| primary.name | API name of the `primary` link | String  | TRUE   |
| primary.title    | Display name of the `primary` link | String | TRUE |
| primary.description | Description of the `primary` relationship | String | FALSE |
| primary.type | The object type for this `primary` link. Valid value: `USER` | Enum | TRUE |
| associated.name | API name of the `associated` link | String  | TRUE   |
| associated.title    | Display name of the `associated` link | String | TRUE |
| associated.description | Description of the `associated` relationship | String | FALSE |
| associated.type | The object type for this `associated` relationship. Valid value: `USER` | Enum | TRUE |

> The primary.type and associated.type are created as Enums to allow Okta to add more object types in the future. This is not a guarantee that Okta will do so.
